The Joe Rogan experience. I think there's so much of this, uh,
the YouTube political world, the YouTube commentary world,
where people are so toxic, you know, there's, there's so much negativity,
there's so much what they call dunking on people.
And there's so much dunking and you do a little Dunkin. Some of it's warranted.
It is warranted. Yes. But I don't know if it's beneficial.
Uh, to the, to the people doing the dunking. Yes. Or.
Even to the cause I think it is temporarily. Well,
sometimes it's good because it, it,
it shows it mocks people's positions and it makes people realize, Hey,
that is a ridiculous position. So if you're on the fence of,
you're not really quite sure how you feel about things and you see someone get
mocked for ridiculous position that maybe you've even shared for a little bit,
right. Maybe, maybe haven't explored it deeply.
And you see someone who has explored it deeply sort of expose all the flaws in
this line of thinking. It's good. But my thing, what I'm,
I,
I interview a lot of people on the right and a lot of people on the left and I
just hate all this conflict that I I'd say.
The unnecessary conflict, I think is when you,
when you watch television today and you see Antifa fighting with
the, you know, Trump supporters and all this,
all this weird conflict, I don't,
I don't necessarily think that most of it is, is necessary.
Necessary. Well, I think the devil's in the details. So like, as an example,
if you want to bring together, I don't know people who are on opposite,
opposite, opposite sides of the climate debate, for example. Good luck.
I'm sure. Right. Well,
why is part of that you could argue is if one side just does not
accept science, right? How can you really bring those people together?
It doesn't mean you need physical conflict to resolve it. In fact,
I completely agree with you. The physical conflict is totally counterproductive,
but at a certain point on some issues,
I understand why there's like an intractability to the debate where it
seems completely impossible to move forward, because whichever side you're on,
I would argue that I'm on the right side of these issues and others would
disagree when you're far apart in a way that you can't even agree
as to like what the starting point facts are about the conversation.
How do you even, how do you start? I have some ideas as to how I try to do it,
but it's very tough.
It was very tough.
I just don't think dunking on people always like constantly on
people is necessarily the way.
Yeah.
And I think it's important to distinguish between just straight up ad hominem,
where someone is wrong and bad, uh,
because I think they're a bad person or they're an idiot or whatever,
to recognizing when somebody is a participant in bad faith in a conversation
to when someone has maybe fallen prey to audience capture
or whatever else might be kind of influencing what, what and how they're doing.
I think that those criticisms are legitimate,
but you gotta stay away from just ad hominem. Yes. Yes.
I agree. And I think that it's just so common today. It's, it's, it's,
it's also extremely attractive. The, the YouTube algorithm, uh, you know,
as far as, um, comments go, I mean, it actually kind of encourages it.
And so does Facebook's. So does, you know,
anytime there's a social media platform that is ad dependent,
one of the best ways to get people to engage is to have something
they disagree with so they can get angry. Yeah. Yes.
Until it becomes no longer brand safe,
according to whoever's running the platform. Right. I mean,
if you go back to April, 2017,
where I woke up and saw that my YouTube channel made 19 cents the
previous day, and I text Kyle Kalinsky and I say,
I think there's like a glitch. Is it like, it says, I made 19 cents.
And he says, it says I made 35 cents or something like that. Uh,
something's going on. And it was the beginning of like ad pocalypse 1.0,
and that was a rough three week period. And, uh, so, so it's, you know,
encouraged the debate and the battle of ideas,
so to speak and all of this stuff until advertisers get worried and they say,
oh, you know, our ads are showing up on stuff.
That's a little bit touch and go for.
Us. It's a weird one to me because, um, I,
YouTube has always been a secondary thought for me,
the first thought was the audio version of the podcast.
And in fact, when we were uploading it to YouTube at first, I was like,
why are we even doing this? I guess, why not?
Some people probably want to watch it. And then somewhere along the line,
it became at least close to as big as the audio version of it.
And then maybe even more significant because one of the things
that the YouTube version has is the comment section,
which is often a dumpster fire, but it,
at least there is some sort of like a community engagement aspect of it that
doesn't really exist in iTunes. Like in iTunes, it's sort of it's in a vacuum.
Right? Sure. Um, but when the ad apocalypse thing happened,
I was like, Hmm, what was going on here? Like, it wasn't,
it wasn't my primary focus. So it wasn't terrifying,
but people that only did YouTube and people that relied on that for their
living. I mean, it was, it's a huge blow.
It was huge. And at the time I'm trying to think back,
I think maybe like around 30% of my entire shows revenue was coming from
YouTube at the time. So it was not everything, but it was still significant,
right? I mean, I have staff and overhead and all of that stuff.
So just overnight 30% going away is huge.
And that's why I've tried to move to the model of telling my audience,
you can skip all of this stuff, you know, even, uh, some of these other,
you know, super chats and all of this other stuff.
Like we run a membership program on my website.
I control a hundred percent of it.
So it's not a Patrion deal or we're on Patrion, but it's not big for us.
The way I think about it is as long as, I mean, listen, yeah, there's, you know,
marijuana companies that are having trouble, even processing payments,
but assuming like Stripe and PayPal,
don't say you can't even accept payments anymore. David PackMan,
I control the entire process on my website. So when people pay their six bucks,
all, but 2.9% gets to me. And when at apocalypse happened,
I saw it as a maybe blessing in disguise.
And that I could now explain to the audience,
here's the problem with these algorithms. Here's the problem. When it goes from,
I am fighting white supremacist content to an algorithm can't distinguish
between that and white supremacist conduct. Right. That's bad for me. Right.
When I interviewed Richard Spencer,
I obviously don't agree with Richard Spencer,
but can an algorithm figure out that there's a difference between an interview I
do with Richard Spencer and white nationalist propaganda. I don't know,
but we can kind of get around all of that if you just go directly to me.
And that's why my focus has been growing that those directors, did you.
Interview Richard Spencer? Yeah. Did you get for that? Yes. Yeah.
That's a weird one. Right. And you know, um, I'm sure you're aware of that. Uh,
that, what is it called? Data and society that the can,
whether there was a woman who made a bunch of connections,
like Joe Rogan knows David Pac-Man and Joe Rogan also knows Alex Jones,
Alex Johnson must be friends with David Pac-Man. Yeah.
It's like one of those minds, you know, like, and it was really weird.
It's it's, it's like guilt by association.
I saw a couple of them, there was like an initial one,
which made me thinking of, then there was a map of like the YouTube sphere,
specifically the left middle and right. Yeah.
Yeah.
And this idea that everyone's like a part of a grand conspiracy to help each
other out and push right. Ideology, even though, you know,
a lot of people that were labeled as right. Aren't right.
Like who like me? Oh.
I'm not right at all. My.
Sense is your politics are pretty left on most stuff.
Um, although I don't, I mean, I don't know,
you personally beyond just seeing your shows, um,
but maybe the critique is based on,
cause I think that those maps were based on what is the YouTube algorithm
suggesting. And so that may not be in line with your personal, right.
It's just maybe what we're talking about.
Like if you're interested in conflict and if you're trying to get engagement,
that that's the way to do it. Like in a few,
two out YouTube algorithm is constantly suggesting people like Ben Shapiro or
Gavin McInnes or whatever, and those videos come up over and over. Sure.
And I mean, so a lot of those people's candles do really well on YouTube.
So if you interview someone who has a channel themselves,
there's a very good chance that the algorithm,
if they're watching your interview with that person will say, well,
here's a lot of their stuff. And then once you click there,
the algorithm very quickly starts to build a picture of,
of every individual user. If you watch your interview with Ben Shapiro,
and then it takes you to a daily wire video,
then it takes you to like the daily wire, second stringer guy. Right.
And then you're off, who knows where.
Right. It's machine learning. Right. I mean, that's all the most part. Yeah.
That's, uh, it is,
it's a troubling aspect of that thing that they do where they suggest the next
videos, which didn't use to be a thing it used to be, you would go to YouTube,
you would watch a video. Right. And then you would go find another video. Right.
They didn't suggest anything. And then somewhere along the line,
I don't remember what year it was,
but this started happening and then they start auto-playing the next.
Video. Yeah.
I think there was some kind of recommendation thing very
early on,
but initially it might've been restricted to just other videos from the same
channel you're watching probably. And at a certain point,
it started to recommend other things.
And I don't know if you look at your analytics and see what percentage of your
views are coming from that recommendations, feed from other stuff.
Um, but it's significant for a lot of YouTube channels, the,
the tagging your videos and getting the right metadata on them in order to
bring an audience is an important thing.
So it's a double-edged sword in some sense. It sounds, it sounds like,
but to get back to what you were saying about, so rich labeled you. Oh,
as Richard's okay. Yeah. I was going to say they labeled you as right.
But you're not right. Yeah.
It's disingenuous. I mean, I've said it over and over and over again.
I've never voted for a Republican in my life.
I've voted independent for Gary Johnson just because he did my podcast and I
wasn't happy with Clinton and I wasn't happy with Trump. She was like,
this is just gross. I'm just going to vote for Gary Johnson. I mean,
I didn't think he was going to win, you know,
he had almost no chance when he didn't know where at what Aleppo was. Right.
I was like, that was his, uh, he was his scream, you know,
like what's his face from New Hampshire and Howard Dean Howard Dean. Yeah. Well.
Voting in California also. I, I assume it wasn't going to. Yeah.
Um, but people conveniently will just as,
or they'll say that like you're a Trojan horse. They like, uh,
you're a pretend left wing person. Who's really just pushing right.
Wing ideologies. I'm like, well, which one? Which, which right. Wing ideology,
is it gay marriage? Is it, what is it?
I put I'm on the left on everything except maybe the second amendment.
Right. I think the criticism that, um,
could be levied if one wanted to make it into a criticism would be,
if you engage with right-wing ideas that you don't
agree with, right? Like I take you at your face, you know,
at face value that you don't agree with.
A lot of the stuff that you're right-wing guests say,
one could make the argument that by not challenging those ideas,
it's implicitly lending them more credibility than maybe you think they should
have.
It's interesting because what I try to do with people, um,
unless something saying, someone's saying something, agregious,
I try to let them talk. I want to know how they feel.
I want to know what their thought process is.
And so instead of just challenging them on it, on everything,
I want them to elaborate. Right. And I feel like by doing that,
I get a sense of how they've come that conclusion and whether it's logical,
right. Whether it's, uh, when they're there,
they've actually used their thoughts and they've really calculated and thought,
this is the position I take. And this is why. And I, a lot of people don't know,
there's a lot of,
a lot of the times where you challenged people in their positions,
you find out like, they don't really know what the they're talking about.
And that the best way to find that out is to let them talk like Candace Owens on
climate.
Right. That was, I mean, there's the Socratic method of questioning,
which is why do you think that? And how do you know that that's true, et cetera,
et cetera. And sort of some other questions that, that come from it, uh,
which I do as well. Um, I mean, I think, I dunno to,
to tie it to the Richard Spencer interview that I did,
some of the criticism I received after was from people on the left. I mean,
the people I want to say it was most of the people on the low for doing the
interview or for what I said in the interview for what I'm doing for doing the
interview at all,
the criticism was more from the left for what I said in the interview,
the criticism was more from the right,
from people who just agreed with Richard Spencer.
Like what things did they agree with that it is inevitable
that people with different ethnic or religious backgrounds simply
will not be able to co-exist together peacefully.
And we're better off trying to figure out how can we separate people based on
their membership in ethnic or religious groups, separatism. I mean,
literally separate. Yeah.
That's sad.
That's a sad thought that you just can't get along with people that do other
things that are interest interested in other things that come from other places
that have different religions that have different points of view. Like why? Uh.
Yeah. Well, they, they have a series of, uh, you know,
decades of what they call scholarship, supporting their view.
But for the context of my interview,
I made it abundantly clear that I didn't agree with that stuff. Right.
And my view is,
and everybody can have a different view about how they do interviews.
My view is if I just allow the,
what I consider to be disgusting views to be spread out, right. You know,
like a spray bottle, just spray them everywhere. Not do anything else. Uh,
I can't say that I'm doing something that I think is valuable.
I don't feel like it's valuable. So my, my approach is,
are the ideas known enough to be worth refuting?
That's number one,
if it's some weird conspiracy theory that has
not even any following whatsoever,
I'm probably not going to choose to even entertain it because it's irrelevant
and sort of always, so my first question is,
was Richard Spencer relevant at the time alt-right was rising?
This guy was considered by many of the sort of creator of the alt-right.
He was growing a following in the context of the Trump, uh,
candidacy at the time, or maybe administration.
I don't remember when exactly it was, it was, I think 2016,
or I'm trying to remember when it was,
I don't remember when I first heard his name. Yeah.
But how did he become, how did he come to prominence?
I don't know the sequence, but I think he had a web,
an alt-right website that had articles of some kind.
And then, um, he,
that website became more known and that terms.
So talk th th all right, you know, all left the centrist,
I got all these, all these different labels are.
Talking about issues. It's so clunky. So, you know, first thing was,
I did want to interview him,
but if I had felt that I wouldn't be prepared to make it abundantly clear that I
don't agree with the guy. And I think his ideas are terrible.
I wouldn't have done the interview. Right.
So the problem I had with the critiques, from the left of me doing that,
some who said, the last thing we need to be doing is giving this guy a voice.
That's often how they say it or a platform.
My response was this guy is getting interviewed in lots of other places that
aren't even challenging him. Right?
I'm at least making an attempt here to get something in the record that there
are arguments against these ideas. These are bad ideas.
And I don't want to be part of the diffusion of just the ideas themselves.
I want to be pushing.
Back. I'm going to have to, now, now, when you did do that, like,
what was his response was during the interview?
What was his response to your pushback? Uh.
I mean, he had answers, you know, he's he's, he was well-prepared.
I don't know if they're, they were unique or new arguments that I was making.
Um,
but there was no argument to be made that I was letting him just parrot white
nationalists talking points on a post, which I wouldn't.
I just wouldn't feel good about that. That's not how I do interviews. Yeah.
And then the, the left was upset that you were giving him air quotes,
a platform, a very small.
Portion of the left. I want to be super clear the left. I mean,
my audience is very left. Almost everybody understood what I was doing.
10 years ago, I was interviewing the Westboro Baptist church.
Most people understood what I was doing. They were more prominent at the time,
but there was this sliver of the left that just didn't want the conversation to
take place. And I always struggle with this because as you can see,
I have no problem criticizing that sliver of the left.
My concern is getting like overly wrapped up to criticisms of the left
that are only held by these like niche slices. Yes.
And that's why, um,
I try to avoid going further than necessary into those criticism.
Okay.